# Contributing to SpaceDataStandards.org

Thank you for considering contributing to SpaceDataStandards.org! Here are some guidelines to help you get started.

## Building Dependencies

This project depends on a custom version of the FlatBuffers binary. You can find it on the following branch:

[DigitalArsenal/flatbuffers - da_version](https://github.com/DigitalArsenal/flatbuffers/tree/da_version)

### Building FlatBuffers

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DigitalArsenal/flatbuffers.git
   cd flatbuffers
   git checkout da_version
   ```

2. Build the binary:

   ```bash
   cmake -G "Unix Makefiles"
   make
   ```

3. Once built, assign the `flatc` binary to your system path.

### Assigning `flatc` to System Path

#### Windows

1. Find the path to the `flatc.exe` binary.
2. Open the Start Search, type in "env", and select "Edit the system environment variables".
3. In the System Properties window, click on the "Environment Variables" button.
4. In the Environment Variables window, select the `Path` variable in the "System variables" section and click on the "Edit" button.
5. Click "New" and add the path to the `flatc.exe` binary.
6. Click "OK" to apply the changes.

#### macOS/Linux

1. Find the path to the `flatc` binary.
2. Open a terminal and run the following command:
   ```bash
   export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/flatc
   ```
   To make this change permanent, add the above line to your `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`, or `~/.profile` file, depending on your shell.

## Package Management Scripts

For every package management system, scripts need to be written and placed in the `./scripts` folder. These scripts should handle the staging and publishing processes.

### Staging Files

Files need to be added to the `publish` folder using the staging script. Any additional files to be included in the package should be placed in the `src` folder in a subfolder named according to the conventions found in the `lib` folder for each language abbreviation.

### Publishing Packages

If package to be deployed needs files in addition to those generated by the `flatc` compiler, place them in the `src` directory under the appropriate language directory using the conventions found in the `lib` folder, creating one if it does not currenly exist.  The build script can use the files from the `src` folder to augment the package to be published.

## Contribution Process

1. Fork the repository and create your branch from `main`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. Ensure the test suite passes.
4. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
5. Add your contact information as a contributor to the 'package.json', if not already there.
6. Submit a pull request.

## Licensing

This library is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. All contributions must be licensed the same way. By submitting a pull request, you acknowledge and agree that all your code is licensed under Apache 2.0, and you guarantee that you have the legal permission to submit the code.